.\" $Id: dspam_train.1,v 1.10 2011/06/28 00:13:48 sbajic Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam_train3.9
.\"
.\" Authors:	Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"		Stevan Bajic <stevan@bajic.ch>
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2012 DSPAM Project
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH dspam_train 1  "Apr 17, 2010" "DSPAM" "DSPAM"

.SH NAME
dspam_train \- train a corpus of mail

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B dspam_train
[\c
.BI username\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \--client\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-i\ \fR\c
index|\c
.BI spam_corpus\fR\c
\ \c
.BI nonspam_corpus\fR\c
]

.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B dspam_train
is used to train and test a corpus of mail (in maildir or MBOX format). This
tool will present each message to DSPAM for a classification and then
retrain only if the message was incorrect. This provides close to real\-world
training and should be used to build pretrained databases. Upon execution,
the tool will automatically determine the ratio of spam:nonspam and train
based on that ratio to ensure both corpora are trained consecutively. This
tool can also be used as a test jig to measure the efficiency and accuracy
of a particular corpus against DSPAM in a given configuration.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.ne 3
.TP

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \--client\c
If specified, DSPAM is used in client\-server mode.

.ne 3
.TP
.BI username\c
Specifies the user to train, if omitted the current user name is used.

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-i\fR\ index\c
Use a index file instead of the usual spam_corpus and nonspam_corpus.

.B index
:  Path to the index file having the following format per line:
.br
[class] [path to message]

.ne 3
.TP
.BI spam_corpus\c
Specifies either the pathname to the directory containing the corpus of spam,
with each in a separate file (e.g. maildir format) or a path to the mailbox in
the traditional Unix MBOX format.

.ne 3
.TP
.BI nonspam_corpus\c
Specifies either the pathname to the directory containing the corpus of
nonspam with each message in a separate file or a path to the mailbox in the
traditional Unix MBOX format.

.SH EXIT VALUE
.LP
.ne 3
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Operation was successful.
.ne 3
.TP
.B other
Operation resulted in an error. 
.PD

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002\-2012 DSPAM Project
.br
All rights reserved.
.br

For more information, see http://dspam.sourceforge.net.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dspam (1),
.BR dspam_admin (1),
.BR dspam_clean (1),
.BR dspam_crc (1),
.BR dspam_dump (1),
.BR dspam_logrotate (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1),
.BR dspam_stats (1)
