.\" $Id: dspam_dump.1,v 1.75 2011/06/28 00:13:48 sbajic Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam_dump3.9
.\"
.\" Authors:	Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"		Stevan Bajic
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2012 DSPAM Project
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH dspam_dump 1  "Apr 17, 2010" "DSPAM" "DSPAM"

.SH NAME
dspam_dump \- produce a dump of a user's metadata

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B dspam_dump
[\c
.B \--profile\c
=PROFILE\c
]
[\c
.B \-d\c
 sqlite_drv\c
]
.BI username\fR
[\c
.BI token\c
]

.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B dspam_dump
dumps a user's metadata dictionary to stdout. This can be used to view the
entire contents of a user's dictionary, or used in combination with grep to view
a subset of data. The output provides the token's stored value (in CRC64 
format), the number of spam and nonspam hits, and the token's computed
probability. 

.SH OPTIONS
.LP

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \ \--profile= \PROFILE\c
Specify a storage profile from dspam.conf. The storage profile selected will be used for all database connectivity. See dspam.conf for more information.

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \ username \fR\c
The username of the user to dump. Only trusted users (or root) can use this
program for the usernames different from the current one.
 
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \ token \fR\c
.br
The text string of the token to search for and dump. If no token is specified,
all tokens will be dumped to stdout.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B dspam_dump user "Subject*Viagra"

Dumps the token Subject*Viagra, which represents the word Viagra in the Subject
header, for the user specified.

.SH EXIT VALUE
.LP
.ne 3
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Operation was successful.
.ne 3
.TP
.B other
Operation resulted in an error. 
.PD

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002\-2012 DSPAM Project
.br
All rights reserved.
.br

For more information, see http://dspam.sourceforge.net.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dspam (1),
.BR dspam_admin (1),
.BR dspam_clean (1),
.BR dspam_crc (1),
.BR dspam_logrotate (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1),
.BR dspam_stats (1),
.BR dspam_train (1)
