.\" $Id: dspam_clean.1,v 1.12 2011/11/16 00:14:11 sbajic Exp $
.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" dspam_clean3.9
.\"
.\" Authors:	Jonathan A. Zdziarski <jonathan@nuclearelephant.com>
.\"		Stevan Bajic <stevan@bajic.ch>
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2012 DSPAM Project
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH dspam_clean 1  "Apr 17, 2010" "DSPAM" "DSPAM"

.SH NAME
dspam_clean \- perform periodic maintenance of metadata

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B dspam_clean
[\c
.B \--profile\c
=PROFILE\c
]
[\c
.I \-s[signature_life]\fR\c
]
[\c
.I \-p[probability_life]\fR\c
]
[\c
.I \-u[sl,hcl,shl,ihl]\fR\c
]
[\c
.I user1 user2 ... userN\fR\c
]

.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B dspam_clean
is used to perform periodic housecleaning on DSPAM's metadata dictionary by
deleting old or useless data. 

.B dspam_clean
has no effect if you use the "hash" storage driver. In that case, you should use
the tools
.B cssclean
and
.B csscompress
(which do not currently have manual pages).

.SH OPTIONS
.LP

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \ \--profile= \PROFILE\c
Specify a storage profile from dspam.conf. The storage profile selected will be used
for all database connectivity. See dspam.conf for more information.

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-s\fR\c
Performs stale signature purging. If a value is specified, the default value of
14 days will be overridden. Specifying an age of 0 will delete all signatures
from the user(s) processed.

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-p\fR\c
Deletes all tokens from the target user(s) database whose probability is
between 0.35 and 0.65 (fairly neutral, useless data). If a value is
specified, the default life of 30 days will be overridden. It's a good idea
to use this flag once with a life of 0 days for users after a significant amount
of corpus training. 

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-u\fR\c
Deletes all unused tokens from a user's dataset. Four different life values
are used:

.B sl
Stale tokens which have not been used for a long period of time

.B hcl
Tokens with a total hit count below 5 (which will be assigned a hapaxial value
by DSPAM)

.B shl
Tokens witha single spam hit

.B ihl
Tokens with a single innocent hit

Ages may be overridden by specifying a format string, such as \-u30,15,10,10
where each number represents the respective life. Specifying a life of zero
will delete all unused tokens in the category.

.ne 3
.TP
.BI \ user1\ user2\ ...\ userN\fR\c
Specify the username(s) to perform the selected maintenance operations on. If
no username is specified, all users are processed.

.SH EXIT VALUE
.LP
.ne 3
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Operation was successful.
.ne 3
.TP
.B other
Operation resulted in an error. 
.PD

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002\-2012 DSPAM Project
.br
All rights reserved.
.br

For more information, see http://dspam.sourceforge.net.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dspam (1),
.BR dspam_admin (1),
.BR dspam_crc (1),
.BR dspam_dump (1),
.BR dspam_logrotate (1),
.BR dspam_merge (1),
.BR dspam_stats (1),
.BR dspam_train (1)
